---
layout: post
title: "Xbox One S and HDR"
categories:
- blog
tags:
- news
---Slick but packs a punch: The Xbox One S is definitely the futureproofed console to grab. The latest iteration from Microsoft's famed console has an extremely powerful HDR (High Dynamic Range) upgrade as well as the ability to display in 4k. Of course this new console is so much more than just these two features and it is these improvements that have gamers that love Xbox lining up for the newest version of the device. The XBOX onme S features an ultra HD Blu-ray device, the ability to display in 4K, provide video streaming in 4k as well as a high dynamic range for new compatible Xbox one games. If you are planning on picking up one of these consoles it's a very good idea that you also pick up a TV that is capable of displaying in 4K video settings. 
There are three main things that you will definitely need to get the most out of your new Xbox one S:The device: The newest version of the Xbox one S does have the ability to display in 4K HD. Older versions of the console will not be up converting with software and hardware found in these devices is not compatible with the higher HD quality of 4k. A 4k compatible TV: You can generally find if your TV is capable of displaying in 4K via the packaging for your TV or through the manual for your TV. Various manufacturers will have different names for the display ratio. Some of the most common things that you should look for our names like 4K ultra HD, UHD, UHD 4k, SUHD TV, 2160P, and Ultra UDTV.
Making sure that your device settings are set up to display in 3840x2160 at 60 Hz, 50 Hz or 24 Hz will ensure that your television is ready when the device is plugged in. The most common names for setting up this resolution are ultra HD deep color, ultra HD premium and UHD color. 
To get started once you plug in your new Xbox One S device click the Xbox one controller and open up the guide going through the settings in all settings menu. Under the display and sound options you can pick out the advanced video settings and then set 4k TV details. If your system can support 4K and you are able to resolution or play video from your Xbox one S, you can troubleshoot the issue on Microsoft's website. There is also support available if you are planning on using a computer monitor with your Xbox one S instead of the standard compatible 4k television. If 4k features aren't supported on your TV details screen or you are unable to set content up to play in 4k due to video quality issues, you may want to look at the Blu ray you are using or check into your TV settings. A need for 4k content:Just because you have a compatible TV and a brand-new console that's capable of displaying in 4k quality, you also need to have the right material that is capable of displaying in this resolution. Just a few select titles were shot in 4k for Netflix and it's important to pick out some of the top titles to play at this resolution if you have not found them in the streaming list. Some Netflix streaming plans also don't have the ability to access these 4k HDR titles so it's very important that you check into the type of streaming plan that you have through Netflix and sort through the items in the application which can play at this resolution. Earlier Blu rays may not display in 4k UHD either. Making sure that the display option is available for up converting or as native resolution on the disc before you buy it is essential. 