---
layout: post
title: "The HDR Format Wars: A Primer"
categories:
- blog
tags:
- explainers
---
**HDR** is the latest format war when it comes to high-quality TV formats. While we often hear about **4K** or **3D** TVs, high dynamic range is quickly becoming the biggest rivalry in TV technology. **HDR** is a term that is short for high dynamic range and the idea of this high dynamic range is creating a huge contrast between the darkest blacks and whitest whites on your television. With this greater contrast colors can become more vibrant and realistic and this makes the entire image on your television much more beautiful. Resolution doesn't necessarily factor into this newest format improvement but **HDR** can produce some absolutely spectacular differences when compared with a regular TV format.

HDR changes the way that we view HDTV content and creates much more depth in the field of colors that we see. Of course the vibrancy and the contrast really depends on the quality of the TV and in some cases **HDR** can expose some of the flaws with a cheaper TV. **HDR** isn't It's akin to the moment when you first saw HD content on a flat screen for the first time. It does however come much closer to presenting of vibrant and colorful image that is the same that you might see on a high-quality monitor as a director.In order to really experience the difference you need to have **HDR** compatible devices as well as **HDR** content. Most of the midrange to high range televisions from 2016 are produced with the ability to display **HDR** content. **HDR** versions of all the latest movies and streams are also prepped and ready for rollout from some of the biggest publishers like Fox and Netflix. One of the most impressive contrasts from the base movie itself is the [Mad Max: Fury Road](http://amzn.to/2b2UES8) Oscar favorite from last year. This title is available for stream on many of the most popular services and it is showcasing some impressive differences from the regular version of the film especially with compatible apps and compatible devices. ### Warring factionsWhile all of this sounds like an excellent improvement there is quite unfortunately a conflict that is keeping many of the top streaming services and studios from converting their format into **HDR** compatible content. **HDR** content comes into major formats; HDR10 as well as Dolby vision. Two of the top TV manufacturers [Sony](http://amzn.to/2aC1p9L) and [Samsung](http://amzn.to/2b2ToOZ) are developing their newest model TVs backing the HDR10 format. HDR10 has also gained a variety of traction when it comes to several of the world's largest Hollywood studios. Dolby however has been name that synonymous with quality in film and a recognizable brand name that has been the standard for audio technology over many years. Dolby Vision was also a technology that was developed before HDR10. Dolby Vision appears to be on the slight losing edge of the trend battle however. Fortunately, big studios are choosing to back both formats. Netflix and [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/primesignup?tag=myhdrtv-20) are offering titles with compatibility in both of these picture modes. There are even some TV manufacturers such as [Vizio](http://amzn.to/2bb9uXd) and [LG](http://amzn.to/2aC2IWj) that are choosing to create TVs with compatibility in both formats as well. HDR format on your next TV purchase could definitely be a great way that you can increase the vibrancy of your picture. It seems however with the format wars going on, it could be a wiser decision to look into a TV that supports both of the **HDR** formats.Some of the main arguments for HDR10 is that any TV that is marked with **HDR** should be able to deliver content in this format. This is also the format that is being heavily marketed towards content creators, TV makers, streaming sites and more. If you watch a lot of online content this is likely be the best format for you to consider. With televisions that offer both formats however it's much easier to get something with mass compatibility. Dolby vision presents a new set of challenges for content creators. Samsung and Sony are going to be supporting Dolby vision and unfortunately there's no way to add compatibility for this system via any type of software update. In order for a television to be supported with Dolby vision, a device needs to undergo a certification process and have a Dolby chip installed as well as have the manufacturer pay extensive license fees for the Dolby name. To make matters worse in the format wars there're also some new competitors preparing products for the future. Two other **HDR** formats are set for release from BBC/NHK as well as Philips/Technicolor. With new news projected from these manufacturers in the next few months, there could be an even grander format war on our hands for color contrast improvements on HDTVs. One thing is for certain, no matter which TV you end up picking there are minimal differences between the formats. Although Dolby can technically offer 2 extra bits of color detail, ultimately it is the quality of the television that will dictate the impact of the contrast. Be sure to do your research and to look at the picture on any new model with **HDR** support before making your decision. A TV with multiple formats can also be a great choice as the format wars heat up!

